[Jose Salvatierra] Hi and welcome back.
In this video we are looking at
how to deal with errors in context managers.
The exit method and under exit method of context managers
has three arguments:
exc type, vowel, and TB.
These stand for exception type,
exception value, and exception trace back.
We're gonna look at exactly what they are in just a moment.
And these things exist because during the execution
of a context manager,
it is possible that an error will occur.
For example, if we go to the add_book function,
we could encounter an error when we try to insert
a book with a name that already exists.
In that case, an error will be raised by sequel lite,
and before it crashes our programme,
it will go to the exit method.
Okay.
So even if an advert is raised,
we'll still call the exit method first,
and it will have some values here,
and then once the exit method has finished running,
the error will continue to be raised
and will crash our programme
unless it's handled in a try except.
If no error occurs, all of these have none values,
so all of these are none I.D.
So here's some sort of stuff we can do in exit.
Of course we can close a connection,
even though an error happened.
Otherwise, we would have to use a try except here.
So earlier on, when we got an error
in inserting a book,
we didn't actually close the connection
because the programme crashed before that.
Now, even if we get an error on the execute,
we still go here, and we come in and close.
We can close the file, even though it never happened,
same thing as here.
We can print something to the console
when something finishing executing,
particularly if an error happened,
we can say "Hey, we ran this context manager,
but it never happened during it's execution."
We can destroy anything we depended on
in the context manager.
So for example we could destroy this connection,
we could destroy a file handler,
we could do anything we want.
Remember than context managers are just that.
They are functions used to manage the context,
and Python gives us some syntactic sugar,
the "with" statement,
that allows us to do these things,
but they are just functions
running at the start or at the end.
It just so happens that the exit function
gets called even when there's an exception,,
an error, which is pretty much the same
as a try except block.
You can do this stuff manually
without using context managers,
but it's probably gonna end up being less readable.
And so this is probably the better choice.
And Python really likes these context managers.
These add readability and reduce repetition in your code
which is good for one of programmings core tenants
which is don't repeat yourself.
Okay.
Let's go and set a breakpoint in sideline 14,
the exit, the under exit method here of our context manager,
and then we are going to run our app.
We're going to add a book which is going to be clean coat,
and then we're going to add the same book again.
Notice how now we get an integrity error here.
It says UNIQUE restraint failed: books.name
And that's in here in the Sequel A3 interior happen
when we try to execute this thing.
Now, let's go ahead and debug our app this time.
And, once again, go to the console,
Oh, I think we may have... Oh yeah, sorry.
This has ran, we don't need to do that.
Let's over, go to A, type clean code,
and now notice how our code stops in here.
We can go over to the debugger
and see that we have a couple of values for
the execution value and execution trace back.
The trace back is this trace back object,
and the value is this UNIQUE constraint failed on books.name
So when we have an exception happen,
the exit function gets called,
but it has some values in it.
I wonder if exc_type has any value...
Yes it does.
This is the integrity error that we got earlier,
this is a type of the error that was called.
So as you can see, these are not none anymore.
They have some values.
So what we can do is,
we can stop our programme, and we can say
if exc_type
or exc_val
or exc_tb:
self.connection.close
without committing anything.
Otherwise, commit and then close.
The reason for this is that if an error happened,
it's possible, though unlikely,
that our database has been left in an inconsistent state,
a state that is not so good.
For example, if you try to enter some data first
and then you want to enter something else,
that depends on the previous data,
but you get an error when that happens.
So what to do, is if there is an exception happen,
close the connection.
Otherwise, commit and then close.
Notice how if exc_type or exc_val or exc_tb
just means is not none.
These are all the same thing.
Exc_type is not none or exc_value is not none
or exc_tb is not none can be shortened to this.
So feel free to use this type of syntax instead.
Remember the or statement gives you the second value
if the first one was false E.
None is a false E value, so this gives you exc_val.
Exc_val is none, which is also false E.
So that gives you exc_tb.
Exc_tb is also none, which is also false E,
so then you go into here.
Because this whole thing evaluates as exc_tb,
which is false.
Okay.
If not, you run the else,
which commits and closes the connection.
So that's it for this video, just wanted to show you
what the exit method parameters are,
and what type of things they hold.
And the type is the exception type,
that's the class of the exception.
The value is any arguments that were passed
to the exception when it was raised.
Normally, that's a description message,
and the tb is the trace back of the exception.
That where the exception happened in all the lines
and all the files where it was seen.
So that's it for this video,
hope you learned something,
and I'll see you on the next one.